---
title: "MIT Manipal"
date: 2016-08-10T21:56:53+05:30
---

Soon after a hectic year of study and entrance exams, came a year with power packed experiences. I could recall from my memory, an unexpected incidence. A year ago I, while returning to my home, from temple, lost my way and ended up in the crowded Manipal Campus. At that moment I saw myself to be there as a student. Destiny aligned with my interests, got admission in one of the best college, in my favorite branch. It is later that I realized, the societal pressure that I had filled myself with during 12th std, was unnecessary. But things turned out to be good. I felt blessed to get into a college where some of the best brains from all over the country come to study. That scared me a bit, but even a few brainless people get lucky sometimes. I wanted to enjoy diversity and learn various aspects of life, so MIT was the best choice. Also it was very close to my residence. Adding to this, it also had international reputation owing to its successful alumnus. Thankfully the burden of heavy amount of fee was lightened by the scholarships I received. Preparations began, from buying new books, filling a bunch of forms to updating whatsapp status “gearing up for MIT”.


A few months after the first drop of monsoon, began that first semester. I was really excited and ready for a new world. The first week was for the faculty to introduce the bits and bones of the campus. The expectation for the first class of engineering was way too high. I could visualize the high tech gadgets and technology miracles, like the ones in Star Trek. But the professor started with boring old 12th class concepts. Of course there were advanced projects going on, which were beyond something which made sense to us. The new college, people and facilities provided there balanced the disappointment of doing 13th class instead of actual “engineering”. The commitment to academics slowly started to fade. Still people used to attend classes, to escape the heat and sleep in AC halls. Initially it was difficult to mingle with the diverse student crowd. Smartphones were used to avoid social interactions. I could hardly manage to make new friends. But I slowly started getting better at my social skills. The thing that we loved the most was free Wi-Fi. Within no time life started getting messy, busy with assignments, internals, workshops and most importantly our new laptops. Then it was time for the technical fest. Since it was a first time experience, I decided to volunteer for Hospitality category, I thought it would be challenging, but I had nothing more to do than deliver a packet of lays and a bottle of water to the concerned organizers. But the fun thing was to look at people filling the campus with noise and their colorful shirts. The end semester exams were close ahead. Prior to it was the thing that students probably hate the most, seminar. I had planned well, but the moment I went to the stage, legs were shivering and my heart was beating like a bullet. I forgot what I had to say and it was the most embarrassing moment of my life. I managed to do a decent performance in the exams. It was during the semester break that I went to the first camp at WKC. The three days that I spent there, thought me more than what I had learnt in the past two years. I literally experienced a new state of mind, which gave me a lot of answers. I was ready once again with mammoth energy and confidence for the new semester.
The beginning of New Year marked the starting point of the next academic cycle. Chapters began, concepts were thrown at us, to be grasped. I realized that engineering was not


what people would label it “difficult”. It’s really chill life, provided one could manage to learn every day. The ratio of self-study to that of class room learning is way too high in engineering. One wouldn’t buy a smartphone just by looking at the screen size. Similar to that just academics would be of no use for somebody to buy my service. During weekends and in my free time, I used to do online courses to expand my technical skills. And sometimes listen to music, have food, all at the same time. Being aware of the skills that would make my personality better, I started working on it at an early stage. I was pathetic in talking to people. I thought that there was some problem with my throat or mouth. But soon I realized that mind is what makes a difference. In response to it, I started spending some time doing yoga and trying to meditate. Marena was the place that I loved the most. Whether it is for recreation, sports, games or gym, it was the best time spent on any given day. Inspite of all these we had to store the data from the books in our brains. Sometimes I used to receive an error from my brain memory “information overflow, out of memory error”. The darkness of academic life started to disappear once the news of Revels- the cultural fest, started to sprout. This time I wanted to take bigger challenges, so thought of joining the system admin team as a volunteer. But again no work to do, but get a food coupon. The fest, undoubtedly gives the best memories for the students. One could find music all around, people scattered, dancing, chatting and having fun. The standup comedy, music bands late night, gave me heart full of entertainment. It reminded me, not to take life so seriously. Once again the dark days were coming, English speech. I recalled the past experience of giving a speech at the camp, started preparing and practicing it. Finally gave a strong speech with confidence, without a pause and the same audience that had mocked me in the past could not resist from applauding me. Still something was missing in my college life. I’ve been playing video games from when I was in my high school. Which invited criticisms from my relatives and society. I proved them wrong, scored a big percentage in my 12th class. I wanted to join a club, a few had already rejected me. The Gaming club of MIT were about to hold their recruitments. Luckily passed the interviews and joined the gamedev team. Finally settled as a MITian. Not a typical one, who smokes and drinks. But kind of a nerd, who is shy even to talk to girls. Soon the dark clouds were to appear. It was time to put the text in our brains and vomit it on the papers. I spent a lot of time during exams to help out my friends who had problems with academics. During the exams time was at a pace of a bullock cart. The holidays started and time flew like a bullet train.


The entire year was filled with mixed experiences and emotions. But at the end it was all good. Society considers 12th class as the turning point, where those who study well get ‘good life’ others are failures. I realized it was absolutely false. A good college will just provide good opportunities and facilities. It never guarantees success. Typical ordinary people strive to get a good job, by getting a degree. That’s where things go wrong. I understood that if one has the passion to learn in his heart, everything becomes simple. Short term academic setbacks didn’t disturb me much. Because I believed that numbers could make no difference. It is the ability and the character that makes. The learning experience through the activities in the campus was very valuable. I was pleased and happy with the decision that I had made a year ago. I developed a keen interest in listening to speeches, though I had no interest in giving one. Internet thought me more than classrooms. Library was meant for serious study. But for us it
was for free AC and Wi-Fi. Going late to class and early to library was my favorite tradition. Days pass and things change but the memory remains, “mighty mighty MIT”.
